README.md, before:

CSCI 1300 (Spring 2013) Syllabus
==================

This describes _Introduction to Computing_, sometimes known as CSCI
1300, at the University of Colorado, Boulder. The course home page is
actually a GitHub repository located here:

[https://github.com/johnsogg/cs1300](https://github.com/johnsogg/cs1300)


People and Office Hours
------

*Instructor:* Gabe Johnson - gabe.johnson@gmail.com - Office Hours 11--2:30 Tuesday/Thursday

*TAs:*

* Frank Di Natale - francesco.dinatale@colorado.edu
* Halley Profita - hprofita@gmail.com
* Jaeheon Jeong - Jaeheon.Jeong@colorado.edu
* Jing Zheng - Jing.Zheng@colorado.edu
* Mahnaz Roshanei - mroshana@uci.edu

*LAs:*

* Matthias Sainz - Matthias.Sainz@colorado.edu
* Noelle Renee Beaujon - Noelle.Beaujon@colorado.edu
* Roberto Kingsley - roberto.kingsley@colorado.edu
* Taylor Kohn - taylor.kohn@colorado.edu

Space/Time Coordinates for Main Lecture
--------

Where: Math 100
When: M-W-F 1:00--1:50pm

Course Purpose 
=======

The purpose of this class is to give everybody the opportunity to
learn how to program. This is _not_ a "weed out" class where we run
you through the computer science gauntlet, causing sleep deprivation
or setting you off on strange mental marathons. (No guarantees about
subsequent courses, however.)

No, the goal here is to give everybody the chance to learn how to
program and decide if this is a profession/skill/avocation that they
want to pursue. Computer programming is often seen as an impenetrable
craft practiced exclusively by mad geniuses. _I can assure you this is
not the case._ 

Computer programming, and the more general idea of computational
thinking, is rapidly becoming a basic literacy skill. By the end of
this course (even if you don't continue with more advanced computer
science courses) you should be able to pick up new languages, tools,
technologies, and make them do tricks. You will also be able to have
more intelligent, informed conversations with professional software
engineers, interaction designers, and hackers.

Grading and Course Structure
=======

There are three components to your final grade: Homeworks, tests, and
the final project. Each is worth 1/3 of your grade. Homeworks are due
and tests are given on Fridays (except for the one test immediately
before Spring Break, proving I do have a heart). Check the schedule.

Homeworks (90 points possible)
--------

There are nine homework assignments. Each is 10 points, for a total of
90 points. Homeworks are due at 6pm. After they are late, you may only
receive a maximum of 5 points. You may use RetroGrade to turn in your
assignment as often as you like. Keep in mind that if you turn it in
after it is due, it will cap your score at 5/10.

Many assignments can be completed in several languages, though you are
only required to complete it in one. Happily, you can turn in
assignments in the other available langauges and earn up to 10 extra
credit points.

At the end of the semester, _provided you received at least 5/10 on
all homework assignments_, extra credit will be aded to your total
homework grade. This means it is possible to get well over 100% on
your homework grade. This is meant to lure you into programming the
same general idea in several languages to give you a sense of how the
languages differ.

**Collaboration on homework assignments is strongly encouraged.** If you
work together or find a web site with code that you learn from, _you
must indicate the relevant people and web sites in the source code you
submit_. Further, if you do work with other people, or find code on
other web sites, _you must type all the code yourself._ Obviously I
can't police copy/paste, so please realize this is for your own
good. Trust me, I've been around the block once or twice.

Homework assignment descriptions and file downloads will appear in the
course GitHub repository over time. I will try to make them available
far in advance so you can work ahead if you like.

Tests (90 points possible)
-----

There are three tests that happen during normal lecture periods. They
are all given before spring break. Anything that has been covered in
class before the test is given is fair game. So this means if there
was something tricky covered on the first test, it might make an
appearance on the second or third test.

_Tests are not collaborative. The Eye of Sauron will be watching. So
will I. Do not cheat._

Specific information about tests will appear in the course GitHub
repository about a week before they happen.

Project (90 points possible)
-------

Programming is a practical art. The project gives you a chance to do
something fun, interesting, epic, or all of the above. Watch this
space for more information, because we haven't figured out the
parameters for this yet. In the meantime, be thinking about cool
things you can do with code, and you might be able to do it for your
project.

We realize that having 1/3 of your grade come at the very end is
nerve-wracking. Therefore, grading for the project will be fairly
lenient. Watch this space.

Plagiarism Detection
----------

You might be interested to know that
[this](http://theory.stanford.edu/~aiken/moss/) is a thing. Remember
to type your own homework assignments and _attribute any collaborators
or source web sites._

Reading / Viewing Material
==========

There is no required book for this course. Textbooks are absurdly
expensive, and there are a number of high-quality introductory texts (and videos!)
available online. Learning to program is best done by writing lots and
lots of code. So: I will suggest readings from these books throughout
the course, but _none of it will sink in unless you write code to
convince yourself that you know what you are doing._

There are probably thousands of programming languages. For any given
task one language may be superior to another. One of the main goals
for this class is that you learn _how to learn_ programming
languages. Therefore, we will program in not one, not two, but _three_
languages: Python, Java, and C++. You are encouraged to take it upon
yourself to learn six more. That would be awesome. But it isn't
required.

The links below are all extensive texts on these languages. They are
all freely available on the web, but in some cases you can give the
author money if you want a nicer version.

_Learn Python the Hard Way_ 

:: [http://learnpythonthehardway.org/](http://learnpythonthehardway.org/)

_thenewboston's YouTube Python Tutorials_ (thanks Sean for the tip)

:: [http://www.youtube.com/course?list=ECEA1FEF17E1E5C0DA](http://www.youtube.com/course?list=ECEA1FEF17E1E5C0DA)
  
_C++ Language Tutorial_

:: [http://www.cplusplus.com/doc/tutorial/](http://www.cplusplus.com/doc/tutorial/)

_Learn C The Hard Way_ 

:: [http://c.learncodethehardway.org/](http://c.learncodethehardway.org/)

_Think Java (How To Think Like A Computer Scientist)_

:: [http://greenteapress.com/thinkapjava/](http://greenteapress.com/thinkapjava/)

_The Command Line Crash Course_

:: [http://cli.learncodethehardway.org/](http://cli.learncodethehardway.org/)

General Topics
========

Here are the general topics we will cover in CS 1300:

* What programming is (and is not) about

* Programming languages, tools, IDEs, and application domains

* Shell interaction (command line interfaces)

* Programming communities and you

* Syntax and Semantics
  - Keywords
  - Operators
  - Operands
  - Statements
  - Variables
  - Literals

* Expression Evaluation
  - Operator precedence
  - Functions evaluate inline

* Data types
  - Bits and bytes
  - Integers, shorts, longs
  - Floating point numbers (float, double)
  - Boolean
  - Characters and strings
  - Comparing, combining
  
* Execution
  - Loops
  - Flow control (conditional execution)

* Functions
  - Writing and calling functions
  - Function parameters and return values
  - Relate high-level constructs to low-level code
  
* Strings
  - Make, manipulate and use character strings
  - Keyboard-based interaction

* Files
  - Create
  - Read
  - Write
  
* Data Structures and Algorithms
  - How to use collections
  - Use search algos to find specific or extreme members of collections

* The Art of Defensive Programming
  - Two programming activities: debugging, or bugging
  - Top-down design
  - Programming with pencils
  - Collaboration
  - Use common program plans
  - Find and fix bugs
  - Good programming style

Your Rights
========

Disability Accommodations
-------

If you qualify for accommodations because of a disability, please
submit to me a letter from Disability Services in a timely manner so
that your needs may be addressed. Disability Services determines
accommodations based on documented disabilities. Contact:
303-492-8671, Willard 322, and
http://www.Colorado.EDU/disabilityservices.

Disability Services' letters for students with disabilities indicate
legally mandated reasonable accommodations. The syllabus statements
and answers to Frequently Asked Questions can be found at
http://www.colorado.edu/disabilityservices.

Religious Observances
-------

Campus policy regarding religious observances requires that faculty
make every effort to reasonably and fairly deal with all students who,
because of religious obligations, have conflicts with scheduled exams,
assignments or required attendance. In this class, {{insert your
procedures here}} See full details at
http://www.colorado.edu/policies/fac_relig.html

Classroom Behavior
-------

Students and faculty each have responsibility for maintaining an
appropriate learning environment. Those who fail to adhere to such
behavioral standards may be subject to discipline. Professional
courtesy and sensitivity are especially important with respect to
individuals and topics dealing with differences of race, culture,
religion, politics, sexual orientation, gender variance, and
nationalities. Class rosters are provided to the instructor with the
student's legal name. I will gladly honor your request to address you
by an alternate name or gender pronoun. Please advise me of this
preference early in the semester so that I may make appropriate
changes to my records. See polices at
http://www.colorado.edu/policies/classbehavior.html and at
http://www.colorado.edu/studentaffairs/judicialaffairs/code.html#student_code.

Honor Code
------

All students of the University of Colorado at Boulder are responsible
for knowing and adhering to the academic integrity policy of this
institution. Violations of this policy may include: cheating,
plagiarism, aid of academic dishonesty, fabrication, lying, bribery,
and threatening behavior. All incidents of academic misconduct shall
be reported to the Honor Code Council (honor@colorado.edu;
303-725-2273). Students who are found to be in violation of the
academic integrity policy will be subject to both academic sanctions
from the faculty member and non-academic sanctions (including but not
limited to university probation, suspension, or expulsion). Other
information on the Honor Code can be found at
http://www.colorado.edu/policies/honor.html and at
http://www.colorado.edu/academics/honorcode/.

Discrimination and Sexual Harrassment
--------

The University of Colorado at Boulder policy on Discrimination and
Harassment http://www.colorado.edu/policies/discrimination.html, the
University of Colorado policy on Sexual Harassment and the University
of Colorado policy on Amorous Relationships applies to all students,
staff and faculty. Any student, staff or faculty member who believes
s/he has been the subject of discrimination or harassment based upon
race, color, national origin, sex, age, disability, religion, sexual
orientation, or veteran status should contact the Office of
Discrimination and Harassment (ODH) at 303-492-2127 or the Office of
Judicial Affairs at 303-492-5550. Information about the ODH and the
campus resources available to assist individuals regarding
discrimination or harassment can be obtained at
http://www.colorado.edu/odh

Commit message:

Edited Readme to include Project Euler, and mentioned RetroGrade.

README.md, after:

CSCI 1300 (Spring 2013) Syllabus
==================

This describes _Introduction to Computing_, sometimes known as CSCI
1300, at the University of Colorado, Boulder. The course home page is
actually a GitHub repository located here:

[https://github.com/johnsogg/cs1300](https://github.com/johnsogg/cs1300)


People and Office Hours
------

*Instructor:* Gabe Johnson - gabe.johnson@gmail.com - Office Hours 11--2:30 Tuesday/Thursday

*TAs:*

* Frank Di Natale - francesco.dinatale@colorado.edu
* Halley Profita - hprofita@gmail.com
* Jaeheon Jeong - Jaeheon.Jeong@colorado.edu
* Jing Zheng - Jing.Zheng@colorado.edu
* Mahnaz Roshanei - mroshana@uci.edu

*LAs:*

* Matthias Sainz - Matthias.Sainz@colorado.edu
* Noelle Renee Beaujon - Noelle.Beaujon@colorado.edu
* Roberto Kingsley - roberto.kingsley@colorado.edu
* Taylor Kohn - taylor.kohn@colorado.edu

Space/Time Coordinates for Main Lecture
--------

Where: Math 100
When: M-W-F 1:00--1:50pm

Course Purpose 
=======

The purpose of this class is to give everybody the opportunity to
learn how to program. This is _not_ a "weed out" class where we run
you through the computer science gauntlet, causing sleep deprivation
or setting you off on strange mental marathons. (No guarantees about
subsequent courses, however.)

No, the goal here is to give everybody the chance to learn how to
program and decide if this is a profession/skill/avocation that they
want to pursue. Computer programming is often seen as an impenetrable
craft practiced exclusively by mad geniuses. _I can assure you this is
not the case._ 

Computer programming, and the more general idea of computational
thinking, is rapidly becoming a basic literacy skill. By the end of
this course (even if you don't continue with more advanced computer
science courses) you should be able to pick up new languages, tools,
technologies, and make them do tricks. You will also be able to have
more intelligent, informed conversations with professional software
engineers, interaction designers, and hackers.

Grading and Course Structure
=======

There are three components to your final grade: Homeworks, tests, and
the final project. Each is worth 1/3 of your grade. Homeworks are due
and tests are given on Fridays (except for the one test immediately
before Spring Break, proving I do have a heart). Check the schedule.

Homeworks (90 points possible)
--------

There are nine homework assignments. Each is 10 points, for a total of
90 points. Homeworks are due at 6pm. After they are late, you may only
receive a maximum of 5 points. You may use
[RetroGrade](http://retrograde.cs.colorado.edu) to turn in your
assignment as often as you like. Keep in mind that if you turn it in
after it is due, it will cap your score at 5/10.

Many assignments can be completed in several languages, though you are
only required to complete it in one. Happily, you can turn in
assignments in the other available langauges and earn up to 10 extra
credit points.

At the end of the semester, _provided you received at least 5/10 on
all homework assignments_, extra credit will be aded to your total
homework grade. This means it is possible to get well over 100% on
your homework grade. This is meant to lure you into programming the
same general idea in several languages to give you a sense of how the
languages differ.

**Collaboration on homework assignments is strongly encouraged.** If you
work together or find a web site with code that you learn from, _you
must indicate the relevant people and web sites in the source code you
submit_. Further, if you do work with other people, or find code on
other web sites, _you must type all the code yourself._ Obviously I
can't police copy/paste, so please realize this is for your own
good. Trust me, I've been around the block once or twice.

Homework assignment descriptions and file downloads will appear in the
course GitHub repository over time. I will try to make them available
far in advance so you can work ahead if you like.

Tests (90 points possible)
-----

There are three tests that happen during normal lecture periods. They
are all given before spring break. Anything that has been covered in
class before the test is given is fair game. So this means if there
was something tricky covered on the first test, it might make an
appearance on the second or third test.

_Tests are not collaborative. The Eye of Sauron will be watching. So
will I. Do not cheat._

Specific information about tests will appear in the course GitHub
repository about a week before they happen.

Project (90 points possible)
-------

Programming is a practical art. The project gives you a chance to do
something fun, interesting, epic, or all of the above. Watch this
space for more information, because we haven't figured out the
parameters for this yet. In the meantime, be thinking about cool
things you can do with code, and you might be able to do it for your
project.

We realize that having 1/3 of your grade come at the very end is
nerve-wracking. Therefore, grading for the project will be fairly
lenient. Watch this space.

Plagiarism Detection
----------

You might be interested to know that
[this](http://theory.stanford.edu/~aiken/moss/) is a thing. Remember
to type your own homework assignments and _attribute any collaborators
or source web sites._

Reading / Viewing Material
==========

There is no required book for this course. Textbooks are absurdly
expensive, and there are a number of high-quality introductory texts (and videos!)
available online. Learning to program is best done by writing lots and
lots of code. So: I will suggest readings from these books throughout
the course, but _none of it will sink in unless you write code to
convince yourself that you know what you are doing._

There are probably thousands of programming languages. For any given
task one language may be superior to another. One of the main goals
for this class is that you learn _how to learn_ programming
languages. Therefore, we will program in not one, not two, but _three_
languages: Python, Java, and C++. You are encouraged to take it upon
yourself to learn six more. That would be awesome. But it isn't
required.

The links below are all extensive texts on these languages. They are
all freely available on the web, but in some cases you can give the
author money if you want a nicer version.

_Learn Python the Hard Way_ 

:: [http://learnpythonthehardway.org/](http://learnpythonthehardway.org/)

_thenewboston's YouTube Python Tutorials_ (thanks Sean for the tip)

:: [http://www.youtube.com/course?list=ECEA1FEF17E1E5C0DA](http://www.youtube.com/course?list=ECEA1FEF17E1E5C0DA)
  
_C++ Language Tutorial_

:: [http://www.cplusplus.com/doc/tutorial/](http://www.cplusplus.com/doc/tutorial/)

_Learn C The Hard Way_ 

:: [http://c.learncodethehardway.org/](http://c.learncodethehardway.org/)

_Think Java (How To Think Like A Computer Scientist)_

:: [http://greenteapress.com/thinkapjava/](http://greenteapress.com/thinkapjava/)

_The Command Line Crash Course_

:: [http://cli.learncodethehardway.org/](http://cli.learncodethehardway.org/)

Fun Stuff
=======

Sometimes I find interesting web sites or little toys that might be appealing to beginning CS students. Here are some refs to cool things.

_Project Euler_

:: [http://projecteuler.net/](http://projecteuler.net/) These are
little puzzles that can be solved with math and little programming
hacks. Challenge yourself! (Thanks to Will Holden for finding it.)

General Topics
========

Here are the general topics we will cover in CS 1300:

* What programming is (and is not) about

* Programming languages, tools, IDEs, and application domains

* Shell interaction (command line interfaces)

* Programming communities and you

* Syntax and Semantics
  - Keywords
  - Operators
  - Operands
  - Statements
  - Variables
  - Literals

* Expression Evaluation
  - Operator precedence
  - Functions evaluate inline

* Data types
  - Bits and bytes
  - Integers, shorts, longs
  - Floating point numbers (float, double)
  - Boolean
  - Characters and strings
  - Comparing, combining
  
* Execution
  - Loops
  - Flow control (conditional execution)

* Functions
  - Writing and calling functions
  - Function parameters and return values
  - Relate high-level constructs to low-level code
  
* Strings
  - Make, manipulate and use character strings
  - Keyboard-based interaction

* Files
  - Create
  - Read
  - Write
  
* Data Structures and Algorithms
  - How to use collections
  - Use search algos to find specific or extreme members of collections

* The Art of Defensive Programming
  - Two programming activities: debugging, or bugging
  - Top-down design
  - Programming with pencils
  - Collaboration
  - Use common program plans
  - Find and fix bugs
  - Good programming style

Your Rights
========

Disability Accommodations
-------

If you qualify for accommodations because of a disability, please
submit to me a letter from Disability Services in a timely manner so
that your needs may be addressed. Disability Services determines
accommodations based on documented disabilities. Contact:
303-492-8671, Willard 322, and
http://www.Colorado.EDU/disabilityservices.

Disability Services' letters for students with disabilities indicate
legally mandated reasonable accommodations. The syllabus statements
and answers to Frequently Asked Questions can be found at
http://www.colorado.edu/disabilityservices.

Religious Observances
-------

Campus policy regarding religious observances requires that faculty
make every effort to reasonably and fairly deal with all students who,
because of religious obligations, have conflicts with scheduled exams,
assignments or required attendance. In this class, {{insert your
procedures here}} See full details at
http://www.colorado.edu/policies/fac_relig.html

Classroom Behavior
-------

Students and faculty each have responsibility for maintaining an
appropriate learning environment. Those who fail to adhere to such
behavioral standards may be subject to discipline. Professional
courtesy and sensitivity are especially important with respect to
individuals and topics dealing with differences of race, culture,
religion, politics, sexual orientation, gender variance, and
nationalities. Class rosters are provided to the instructor with the
student's legal name. I will gladly honor your request to address you
by an alternate name or gender pronoun. Please advise me of this
preference early in the semester so that I may make appropriate
changes to my records. See polices at
http://www.colorado.edu/policies/classbehavior.html and at
http://www.colorado.edu/studentaffairs/judicialaffairs/code.html#student_code.

Honor Code
------

All students of the University of Colorado at Boulder are responsible
for knowing and adhering to the academic integrity policy of this
institution. Violations of this policy may include: cheating,
plagiarism, aid of academic dishonesty, fabrication, lying, bribery,
and threatening behavior. All incidents of academic misconduct shall
be reported to the Honor Code Council (honor@colorado.edu;
303-725-2273). Students who are found to be in violation of the
academic integrity policy will be subject to both academic sanctions
from the faculty member and non-academic sanctions (including but not
limited to university probation, suspension, or expulsion). Other
information on the Honor Code can be found at
http://www.colorado.edu/policies/honor.html and at
http://www.colorado.edu/academics/honorcode/.

Discrimination and Sexual Harrassment
--------

The University of Colorado at Boulder policy on Discrimination and
Harassment http://www.colorado.edu/policies/discrimination.html, the
University of Colorado policy on Sexual Harassment and the University
of Colorado policy on Amorous Relationships applies to all students,
staff and faculty. Any student, staff or faculty member who believes
s/he has been the subject of discrimination or harassment based upon
race, color, national origin, sex, age, disability, religion, sexual
orientation, or veteran status should contact the Office of
Discrimination and Harassment (ODH) at 303-492-2127 or the Office of
Judicial Affairs at 303-492-5550. Information about the ODH and the
campus resources available to assist individuals regarding
discrimination or harassment can be obtained at
http://www.colorado.edu/odh
